I hear this over and over again- the manager knows about it, I told you about this in the meeting, everybody is aware of this e.t.c. If that decision is not in a hyperlink-able location that decision doesn't exist and it is key that you capture that. Because without a very clear track of those decisions, you cannot learn from experience, you cannot learn from being able to predict what is going to happen in the future.

And in a way the reason why that is important is not for the first scenario because it would always fail, it is the long game, it is the second and third situation where you want to start building the credibility to say, "we did this in the past, it didn't work here are the consequences, here is the real cost of that particular decision, let's not make this mistake again".

This is very important,it is very important to really be able to do postmortems and understand the real cost of decisions, understand that that comment that was made, "oh we don't have time to do this now because we have a deadline", six months later or after a huge amount of manpower and time spent in fixing the problem, you need to be able to say, "well actually was that decisions the correct one? Actually in a way we have said we can't do this because we don't have time actually let's now learn from that and really quantify what we are talking about".

Because for the future then next time you want to say, "well we need a week or two weeks or a month to do this", you could always say, "see last time we didn't do this and we lost six months". So it is very key that in a way not only do you capture the decisions, you then make sure you do very good postmortems on what happens after those risk being accepted.

And another key concept is that when then there is the consequences or either security issues or the incidence on the problems of technical debt that exists because of one of these bad decisions is very key that it all gets hyper-linked back to the original issue.

So in a way the original issues are the foundations of the business case of why that in a way was a problem and why you don't want to repeat it again in the future.
