The key challenges of becoming a developer are understanding concepts that are intrinsic to the development work flow. And in a way I would say version controls is probably one of the most important ones. And one area that I find a huge weakness in students and IT professionals is version control where because they have a lack of development experience, they have not experienced the power of version control.

And this is something that it is hard to explain until you experience this. It is one of those things that only when you do it, you really understand the power of a particular technology. In this case, of how to manage content in a distributive way.

The power of git and the reason it has been so successful for data version controls is that it radically changes the way you think, it radically changes the way you collaborate with creating the original source code but it could be anything. In fact there is amazing case all over the world of using git to manage laws to manage all sorts of things.

So it is already spreading but in a way not fast enough. So I think how to recommend somebody who is stuck in a loop of for example managing a word document or a spreadsheet to use git as a version control system. So even if in the beginning all they are doing is using git to manage the binaries either the files itself, they will already be exposed to central repositories, pushing data, git flows, git flow or git lap flow, pull requests, merge requests, etc.

Now, eventually what you want to see is a move into native and tech space data storage. So even for example somebody has excel spreadsheet, you would want to see a move to storing the actual data points into a format that can easily be read.

And it is important because lots of things I read, I mean easily be stored in a text format that is humanly read. And the reason this is important is because diffing and versionning is key when you have a team collaborating a real challenge is not in the first review, a real challenge is the second, third, fourth, fifth reviews where you don't want to read the whole thing again you just want to see what changed, especially when you asked for changes to be made, at that time you are just verifying that did the person that made the change understand your request and did they make the change where you expect them to be.

At that moment in time reading the whole thing doesn't work. And the same thing happens with code changes, if you think about that technology which is basically quite successful in track changes, you can track changes to really get how that works that is great but that is also like one or two levels you need a lot more than that. 

And it also doesn't have one of the peers of git which is push it the person making the request of the change to actually clean up and really make it easy for the person that is going to read and change through the work.

So when you store the data natively, or when you store the data in a text based format, you can then store the digitization part into spreadsheet. Which the logic will be that your visualization hasn't really changed most of the time, what will change is the data points and recapturing so again that will scale.

And then eventually what you really want to do is move into more web based again code based kind of format where instead of using excel, using another web inter phase, using a website, using some technology like D3 or Vis, .js, and in a way that is a great part of the program where you are just taking a spreadsheet and codifying it on a git repo or on a website is already a great programming task.

So I highly recommend students and info-sec practitioners who want to get to coding to start there.
